black-and-white video for black and
white issue I'm recording this in Chiang
Mai Thailand I recently did get some
criticism some complaints from patreon
supporters who were asking me questions
such as how dare you criticize communism
when you do not also criticize
anti-communist violence from capitalist
a lot of questions along these lines
that rely on a kind of false symmetry
people often use the term false
dichotomy but this is actually a false
symmetry there are many reasons why the
examination of communism and the
examination of capitalism are
asymmetrical but I think the most
fundamental and important I want to draw
attention to in this video is the fact
that communism really is defined
narrowly and precisely as one economic
system one political system one social
system and capitalism is not capitalism
is really very broad somewhat even vague
category of what emerged as feudalism
collapsed in the history of Europe
I do have an earlier video that I'm
gonna provide a link to below this video
in which I was replying to a really
interesting email I received from a an
indigenous person of South America a map
Uche Indian and he was writing to me
he was interested in my channel he was
writing to me an agreement that he
thought the vegan content from freely
was garbage it's really interesting
email to get and it was in very poorly
spelled English as I recall but really
really memorable email on what's got
from this guy and I pointed out in my
response to him that he was blaming
capitalism for many many things that
neither in a strict sense nor in a
general sense capitalism could be blamed
for so he was complaining for example
about the conduct of the Pope as the
head of the Catholic Church in I guess
what you call the medieval and
renaissance period of Europe this is not
capitalism we can't simply treat
capitalism as a miscellaneous category
for everything we hate criticize or
disagree with so in the questions I got
asking how they are I criticize
communism without for example credits
American imperialism in Vietnam now if
you've watched my channel I think I
share a lot of criticism American
journalism I used to live in and work in
Laos and Cambodia to countries that have
suffered terribly under American
imperialism so I mean it's not the case
that I'm some kind of uncritical witness
to American imperialism but again just
as we can't look at Italian imperialism
in this way we can't look at the Italian
Empire the Catholic Empire nor the Roman
Empire and just put this into a category
capitalism the decisions made by the
Pope as the head of the church can't
contribute to capitalism in the same way
it's not some simple formula we can
point the finger at capitalism is an
economic system and then explain for
example American atrocities in the
Korean Civil War the war that created
the separation in North Korean South
Korea as the fault of capitalism this
this really fundamentally doesn't make
sense
now it's also not easy to say even if
you look at crimes against humanity
atrocities human rights violations
committed by the United States in the
the Korean War
Corinne Civil War what if you want to
call it um it's not easy to say well the
atrocities committed by the United
States were so bad that therefore it was
a bad thing the United States to
intervene and defend South Korea anyone
who spent some time examining the war
that's a very very hard conclusion to
come to it's you look at the reality of
human rights today in North Korea versus
South Korea and on the contrary we
probably have to ask yourself the
question at what point are the Americans
committing so many violations of human
rights so many crimes against humanity
that discredits a war that in some ways
was evidently necessary or necessitated
by the extreme brutality of of communism
communism that continues to this day in
North Korea these are really really
tough questions to ask yourself however
my initial point when I'm coming back to
is the main light motif in this video
the nature and conduct of the North
Korean regime can indeed be explained
largely if not wholly in terms of
communism in terms of what is communism
as an economic system what is communism
as a governing idiom
what is communism is a heading in
political science and is with tremendous
difficulty that you would in parallel
explain the behaviors of Japan Holland
Denmark and the United States simply
under this heading of capitalism let's
open it up a little bit further
how about Sri Lanka versus Thailand
looking at the kana in the last 50 years
of two countries like that that are in
the same region that are both capitalist
Sri Lanka and Thailand are capitalist
countries but we can't in this same way
say oh well these are all capitalist
regimes therefore that explains the
conduct of the CIA the conduct of the
American army of the American Empire
would have you neither in South Korea
North Vietnam nor any other theater so
why is that as I say it's it's really
easy for people to think in terms of a
false dichotomy and a false symmetry you
can make a checklist of what defines
capitalism you can talk about the form
of land ownership you can talk with the
existence of specific institutions like
an including stock market you can come
up with you know whether or not labor
you know is defined under a contract and
people throw to break that contract
record a few things you can you can look
at just coming up with a working
definition of capitalism and then you
can ask yourself at any given time you
know prior to the Communist revolution
was China or was it not a capitalist
society the Communist Party of China
actually their official position is that
China never had a period of calm of
capitalism they went directly into into
communism without ever having a period
they went straight from feudalism into
communism at what point are we no longer
talking about feudalism in the history
of Japan and when are we talking about
capitalism when are we what point in the
history of the Netherlands are we hunger
talking about a medieval economy or a
renaissance economy or a mercantilist
economy and we're talking instead about
about capitalism what we call capitalism
today is above all else a set of
cultural concepts that emerged out of
the collapse of feudalism in Europe and
it emerged in a so this is very
different even from
something like the emergence of the
Industrial Revolution there is no
revolution that defines capitalism there
is no manifesto there is no capitalist
manifesto that defines capitalism there
is no political party today that defines
schedules and there never was right
unlike say the Communist Party of Russia
unlike say the particular biography of a
figure like like Karl Marx so it's
actually a profoundly a symmetrical
situation philosophical otherwise and
this is complicated above all else for
the fact that anyone who is pro
capitalist in today's parlance is not
presumed to be supporting capitalism as
it actually exists now or capitalism is
actually existed in a particular point
in the past they are presumed the
meaning of Pro capitalism is to mean
that they object to the existence of
socialism or aspects of socials and
features of socialism within the
capitalist economy today now as as many
many pro-capitalist economists have
pointed out capitalism has always
included features of socialism whereas
vice-versa
socialist societies have a very
difficult time including key features of
capitalism Milton Friedman was always
very eager to point out in his lectures
and writing and so on that within the
United States of America the the
military is in fact a socialist economy
within a capitalist economies
interesting point in perspective so you
know some countries have a socialist
health care system within a capitalist
society some of the socialist
electricity system you know they run
electricity in a non free-market manner
or what have you especially small
countries but were you know they
wouldn't be able to really small poor
countries that wouldn't be able to have
electricity if it was going at free
market rates and it's run as something
of charity you various sectors the
economy I think in most modern Western
countries sewage treatment is ruining us
so in a socialist manner because it's
it's totally impossible to do sewage
treatment on a for-profit free-market
basis probably a few few countries have
tried but the problem is we don't really
have a good analytical category for
describing discussing and indeed
supporting capitalism as it actually
exists someone who is said to be pro
capitalist is presumed to be
pro-american Empire Pro CIA in favor of
the American army committing crimes
against humanity and atrocities whether
it's an example like the CIA and
Indonesia or the American participation
in the Korean War and those things in a
very real sense have nothing to do with
capitalism you so we're at a bit of an
impasse with this I do not identify as
pro-capitalist
I identify as anti-communist however if
you ask about specific examples because
we have to do we can talk about Japanese
capitalism Japanese capitalism is a
specific system specific economic system
specific ruling ideology and Japanese
capitalism you can make a checklist just
even in terms of economic criteria but
also political chair Japanese capitalism
is profoundly different from Dutch
capitalism or Danish capitalism we can
look at Swedish capitalism we can look
at Canadian capitalism we can look at
American capitalism and then we can ask
the question in the future do we want
our own country so I'm Canadian do I
want the future of Canada to be more
like the present-day system in Japan do
I want it to be more like the
present-day system in Sweden or Denmark
and already we have a rich discourse a
rich variety of options that are
subsumed within this category called
capitalism now again I'm using kind of
Eurocentric or Western examples here but
believe it or not if you care
passionately about the politics of Asia
I could say the same thing again about
about Southeast Asia even I could say
you know you look at a country like Sri
Lanka you look at what's going on in
Thailand and then you can ask the
question what is the future of Myanmar
what is the future of a country like
Cambodia should Cambodia be looking to
Sri Lanka as an example tree Cambodia be
looking to say Japan as an example
what's the future the Philippines can be
we actually have tremendous diversity
and tremendously important questions to
be asked that are within capitalism and
we don't even begin to broach those
questions or come to useful answers if
we phrase this in terms of Pro
capitalism and anti capitalism and on
the contrary there were really
meaningful questions that get asked if
we if we ask question do you what do you
think about Japanese capitalism
what do you think is wrong with what do
you think fundamentally beans needs to
be reformed needs to be abolished
within the Japanese capitalist system
and believe me anyone who knows and
cares about Japanese politics though
that'll start a long conversation in
what ways does Sweden or Denmark
offer a much more fundamentally positive
model compared to France or Germany or
England those are really meaningful
discussions that happen within this very
broad category of capitalism because at
the end of the day talking about
capitalism is like talking about compost
compost isn't one thing capitalism is
the compost heap that was left over
after the collapse of European feudalism
and many different things some good and
some bad have sprouted up out of that
fertile so it